feat: add `preserve-caught-error` rule (#19913)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/rules/preserve-caught-error.md

Author: @fasttime Ahh, I was always confused about the role of those fences. Thanks for clarifying, I've started using these in my docs!

}

// Ignoring the caught error at the parameter level
// This is valid by default, but this behavior can be changed
// by using the `disallowUncaughtError` option discussed below.
try {
	doSomething();
} catch {
	throw new TypeError("Something went wrong");
}
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule:

```js
/* eslint preserve-caught-error: "error" */

try {
    // ...
} catch (error) {
    throw new Error("Something went wrong", { cause: error });
}

try {
} catch (error) {
	foo = {
		bar() {
			// This throw is not directly related to the caught error.
			throw new Error("Something went wrong");
		}
	};
}
```

## Options
This rule takes a single option — an object with the following optional property:

- `disallowUncaughtErrors`: Disallows catch blocks that discard the caught error without referencing it when set to `true`. By default, this is `false`.

```js
"preserve-caught-error": ["error", {
  "disallowUncaughtErrors": true
}]
```

Example of **incorrect** code for the `{ "disallowUncaughtErrors": true }` option:

```js
try {
	doSomething();
} catch { // Can't discard the error ❌
	// Handling and re-throw logic
}

> ```

Author: Done!

Example of **correct** code for the `{ "disallowUncaughtErrors": true }` option:

```js
try {
	doSomething();
} catch(error) { // Error is being referenced ✅
	// Handling and re-throw logic
}

> ```

Author: Thanks, done!

---
title: preserve-caught-error
rule_type: suggestion
further_reading:
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/cause
- https://nodejs.org/api/errors.html#errorcause
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-cause/blob/main/README.md
- https://dev.to/amnish04/never-lose-valuable-error-context-in-javascript-3aco
---

JavaScript developers often re-throw errors in `catch` blocks to add context but forget to preserve the original error, resulting in lost debugging information.

> Using the `cause` option when throwing new errors helps retain the **original error** and maintain complete **error chains**, which improves debuggability and traceability.

Reviewer: Please show an example here. Also, let's remove the bold. That's not necessary.

Author: Sure, done!

## Rule Details

> This rule enforces the use of the [`cause`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/cause) property when throwing a new error inside a `catch` block.
> 
> Checks for all built-in [error types](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/src/lib/es2022.error.d.ts) that support passing a `cause`.

Reviewer: We typically avoid linking to other resources right in the middle of our docs. They should go in "further reading".

```suggestion
This rule enforces the use of the `cause` property in a built-error error constructor when throwing a new error inside a `catch` block.
```

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

```js
/* eslint preserve-caught-error: "error" */

// Not using the `cause` option
try {
    // ...
} catch (error) {
    throw new Error("Something went wrong: " + error.message);
}

// Ignoring the caught error at the parameter level
try {
	doSomething();
} catch {

> 	throw new TypeError("Something went wrong");

Reviewer: Upon thinking about this further, I think this case should be valid as it seems like the intent is to throw away the error. After all, if the rule is `preserve-caught-error`, the error here isn't actually caught.

Maybe we could add an option to allow catching this pattern as well if people want?

@mdjermanovic @fasttime what do you think?

Reviewer 2: > I think it's a good idea to have an option to report throw statements in catch blocks that don't bind the error, and it's fine if that defaults to `false`.

Sounds good to me.

---
title: preserve-caught-error
rule_type: suggestion
further_reading:
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/cause
- https://nodejs.org/api/errors.html#errorcause
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-cause/blob/main/README.md
- https://dev.to/amnish04/never-lose-valuable-error-context-in-javascript-3aco
---

JavaScript developers often re-throw errors in `catch` blocks to add context but forget to preserve the original error, resulting in lost debugging information.

Using the `cause` option when throwing new errors helps retain the **original error** and maintain complete **error chains**, which improves debuggability and traceability.

## Rule Details

This rule enforces the use of the [`cause`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/cause) property when throwing a new error inside a `catch` block.

Checks for all built-in [error types](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/blob/main/src/lib/es2022.error.d.ts) that support passing a `cause`.

Examples of **incorrect** code for this rule:

> ```js

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
/* eslint presever-caught-error: "error" */
```

// Not using the `cause` option
try {
    // ...
} catch (error) {
    throw new Error("Something went wrong: " + error.message);
}

// Ignoring the caught error at the parameter level
try {
	doSomething();
} catch {
	throw new TypeError("Something went wrong");
}

try {
	doSomething();
} catch (err) {
	// caught error not used by the helper function that constructs custom errors.
	throw createExtraneousResultsError("test", { error: err });
}
```

Examples of **correct** code for this rule:

> ```js

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```js
/* eslint presever-caught-error: "error" */
```

---
title: preserve-caught-error
rule_type: suggestion
further_reading:
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error/cause
- https://nodejs.org/api/errors.html#errorcause
- https://github.com/tc39/proposal-error-cause/blob/main/README.md

> - https://dev.to/amnish04/never-lose-valuable-error-context-in-javascript-3aco

Reviewer 4: I think it's fine to do that in this PR since this is a very small adjustment. Maybe it would be sufficient to print just the file path rather than the full URL in the GitHub repo.
